meta-soletta/README.md, before:

#meta-soletta

This is the soletta yocto meta-layer. Soletta Project is a framework for making
IoT devices. With Soletta Project's libraries developers can easily write
software for devices that control actuators/sensors and communicate using
standard technologies. It enables adding smartness even on the smallest edge
devices.

If you have any question or want to propose any a change contact the soletta
project on github: https://github.com/solettaproject/.

##SmallOS

SmallOS is a distribution based on poky adding what seems to be required for
soletta framework + IoT (i.e systemd, udev, and all needed to produce a minimal
linux system).

##Dependencies

The dependencies to build the images are:
  - Yocto poky or later
  - meta-intel (If building for intel based-hardware is required)

##Build image for Intel Edison
Go to [Soletta wiki - Edison Instructions](https://github.com/solettaproject/soletta/wiki/Edison-Instructions#yocto)

##Build image for Minnowboard Max
Go to [Soletta wiki - MinnowBoard-MAX-Instructions](https://github.com/solettaproject/soletta/wiki/MinnowBoard-MAX-Instructions)

Commit message:

meta-soletta: README: Update meta-soletta description with tutorials for Ostro OS
(From meta-soletta rev: 4e11b7e953a5a4e89ccd273c840ef4a565d7ce99)

Signed-off-by: Bruno Bottazzini <bruno.bottazzini@intel.com>

meta-soletta/README.md, after:

#meta-soletta

The meta-soletta project is a meta-layer for [Yocto](https://www.yoctoproject.org/) that contains the needed recipes to cross-compile Soletta and generate images for a target board.

The meta-soletta is being supported by [Ostro OS](https://ostroproject.org/), an open source Yocto-based operating system for IoT devices, and it is the recommended method of using the meta-layer.
 
The generated images are snapshots of the operating system ready to be booted. Being Ostro-based they contain all the needed software for an easier IoT development.

In this page we include two ways of generating system images: one covers [how to build them with Ostro](#generating-the-images-with-ostro-os) (highly recommended) and the other one covers [how to build them with pure Yocto](#generating-the-images-with-yocto).

# Generating the images with Ostro OS

Ostro supports the following boards:
  - Intel Edison
  - MinnowBoard MAX
  - Intel Galileo Gen2
  - BeagleBone Black
  - GigaByte GB-BXBT-3825

To generate the image follow this Ostro documentation: [Ostro Project - Building Images] (https://ostroproject.org/documentation/howtos/building-images.html)

## Installing the images

To install the generated image follow this tutorial from Ostro: [Ostro Project - Booting and Installation] (https://ostroproject.org/documentation/howtos/booting-and-installation.html)

# Generating the images with Yocto

Only use this option if you are an advanced user of Yocto and you're sure of what you're looking for. Otherwise the [Ostro method](#generating-the-images-with-ostro-os) is highly recommended.

With pure Yocto we support the following boards:
  - Intel Edison
  - MinnowBoard MAX

To generate image with Yocto for MinnowBoard MAX: [Building for MinnowBoard MAX](https://github.com/solettaproject/soletta/wiki/MinnowBoard-MAX-Instructions)

To generate image with Yocto for Intel Edison: [Building for Intel Edison] (https://github.com/solettaproject/soletta/wiki/Creating-an-Edison-Image-with-Yocto)
